And welcome back.
We just left off with code splitting which was very very exciting but there's actually a cleaner way
of doing things.
Well there are several.
I'm going to show you one of them now.
This over here.
This state DOT component that's pretty ugly.
And if somebody needs you your team comes and they're not familiar with the syntax they're going to
be really confused by your code.
Ideally we can make our code very simple to understand.
So let's try and do that by the way just to keep things consistent because components while there are
technically objects I'm going to make this Noal instead of string to keep things consistent.
Now we're here with the cleaner version.
Wouldn't it be nice if we had some sort of a component such as a signal Bonan that we can't wrap around
things and just say that this component is going to be Aints async.
So just import it well let's do that.
I'm going to create an async component and you'll see why that's helpful at the end of the video Boinne
to go into the components and create a new file and we'll call it a sync component.
Dodginess within here we have the typical imports react and also the component
from our Riak package.
All right.
And now we're going to create something called a higher order component and that's a component that
returns a nother component.
It's just like a higher order function a higher order function which we've talked about is a function
that returns a function.
So again because components are just functions that's what it is a component that returns another component
just like we had connect and redux.
So the way we create this and by the way as I'm writing this if this goes over your head don't worry
async component is pretty standard.
You can go online and search for it and all the code for this async component pretty much looks the
same.
So you just have to get used to it if you want to learn more about higher order components.
The re-act docs has a high order component section and it's going to really help you.
But for now stick with me it's all going to make sense.
We're going to first start off with export the fault we'll call this a sync component with lowercase
say which is a function.
So let's just say exper default function async component and this async component remember because it's
a higher order function it's going to need a component as a parameter going to say import component
so that's going to be page 2 and page 3 for us.
And now finally within here we get back to our syntax that we're familiar with that is class A sync
component.
But this time with capital because it's a class it's a component we're creating that extends component
from react and within here we have the constructor that is going to also receive prop's And again we
have to call super with props in order to have access to them.
And we'll just say this state equals component equals to nil.
So just like we had an apt.
Yes.
We're going to have component No here.
Now within this next part we're going to do component did not.
Now if you remember we need to load these ph to MP shreik components and they have there were promises
because we used dot then and then we had to set state to whatever component we received just for fun.
I'm going to show you how to do with a sink a weight just so that you get a little bit more extra info.
So again with any asynchronous function we can just say a sync and within here we can use the sweet
keyboard so we can say Konst default and this is a bit of destructuring if you remember the default
over here we're just destructuring to just make sure we're getting the default component and that's
going to equal
component.
And how do we get these while we do the wait and do our asynchronous code which is going to be import
component because with this we're going to be able to import our push to impeach shreik component.
So all we're doing here is while we had over here with component he calls page dot default we're now
going to have access to the component.
Now within here.
We can finally do this thought satt state
component he calls
component.
Again the very same thing we're doing over here with component equals toupees to default just the shorthand
cleaner way of doing it.
Finally we want to render
the component.
So I'm going to say conc component because we don't know if it's going to be page 2 or pastry.
We just want a general generic component name.
And this is going to equal this state DOT component.
And finally in here we can just return if we have a component we'll say pass down that component and
any props that it may have using a bit of the structure in which just say if this component has any
props also include them and we have to make sure we wrap that like this.
So remember because we've passed on Prossy async component if somehow anything trickles in past them
down to component.
Otherwise just render no don't render anything.
Finally because we're wrapping this in a function we have to return something and we want to return
the async component so we can't just say at the bottom
we turn a sync component.
Let's save.
Now I'm going to run NPM start here just so it checks for errors we still have to import it async component.
Now we can use.
But this might still look a little bit confusing so see.
Let's see how we can use this component now.
This higher order component.
I go back to APT.
Yes and I'm going to import a sync component from our components folder.
Now we can use this async component to clean this up a bit.
We can well let's comment this out and go back to the way we had it at the beginning when we didn't
have any code splitting.
But this time around for this return statement we're going to say that we want to have a async page
two that equals the async component.
And remember it's a function.
So we're going to call within this function with the first parameter being that remember it's import
component.
So to import the component we just do import
components da slash ph to
let me make that a little bit smaller.
There you go.
All we did here was say async component which is a function we created is going to take a parameter
that imports the component and from that imported component we're going to grab the default the component
default and added to the state and then we're going to return and render the component.
So going back here I can now say async page to this will return async page 2 and we can do the same
for page 3.
I can say that in here we have a sync page 3.
So now our component is a sync pastry.
Let's save right.
I'm not getting any errors.
Let's see if it actually works in the browser.
Let's go back and refresh.
We have our bundle if I click this click on the second page.
All right I get another file and another file.
Perfect.
Now you notice how we have three and four here.
That's because up here we still have the imports.
So now we're creating four chunks which we don't really want.
We can now remove all of this.
So now we can just go back to the way we have things with this dot set state all save go back let's
refresh here.
We have the bundled digests.
If I clear and go to page 2 There you go page 2 pastry.
Very very cool.
And you saw that flash.
You don't see that flash any more.
But initially when they're loading there's a bit of a flash and that is a tradeoff that you need to
decide on do I want this quick flash where the user has to wait to import the javascript files so that
our load time initial load time for the first bundle is faster.
And that's something that you just have to decide as a senior developer.
But now you have the tools to decide why you want to do and you might be looking at this and saying
hmm is this actually cleaner than what we did before.
I think it is.
I think the async component is definitely a little bit tougher to grasp.
By the way just in case you're confused about this again.
If I just leave it the way it was to have component like we've done before.
Well in that case again it's still going to work.
So that was just a shorthand way of doing it.
But anyway getting back to the point now we're able to use async component anywhere we want in our code
and any time we need to load something we can just wrap it in async component import the component name
and whatever we want and render it one last thing.
If I go back to my NPM run Bill
we open this up and we see that compared to last time we actually have a bigger Bondel size for the
main.
We have one byte here but we don't have to worry about that our bundle size just increased.
Now why is that.
Because in our main bundle now we've included the async component because remember an app Dahlia's we
import async component again.
Always think of tradeoffs.
Is this the best thing to deliver to the user at the beginning.
And do we want to asynchronously load these chunks.
But I hope you had fun and you see some of the power of asynchronous loading and code splitting.
It's a pretty new topic but I think something that every company should consider when delivering javascript
to the user.
I'll see you in the next one.
By.